#Project Description[Muso Zhe Fan, Daniel M Cooper]


##Research Topic
The amount of information we have and the variety of sources generating it is staggering. Consumer products the world over make an incredibly wide range of personal data available. Only a few years ago personal computing was relegated to a handful of peripherals - tablets, cell phones, beepers. Today, personal computing is ubiquitous. Deep market penetration no longer rules the day was new models of distributed computing upend distinctions between central computing - information generated and managed by discrete institutional or corporate entities - and the periphery, which simultaneously divides and produces information endlessly.
Data is increasingly valuable; its cottage industries sprawling; its ability to pique the interest of industries that only a few years ago would not only not have known what to do with data but would not have paid into the billions of dollars that the data trade generates every year.
Still, how to analyze data is, nonetheless, a fraught endeavor. How can data about personal choices throughout the day - to take the stairs or the elevator, for example - be used by inquiring minds? Concomitant with data’s becoming ubiquitous  is a need to group data, to read its trends, to palpate the reality that can’t be seen in the numbers through the streams we can see. Are the extra steps a sign of a person voice or a broken escalator? Data is a great way to see relationships. 
Data is generated by people and it is generated by object. More importantly, data is generated when people and objects interact. Data is, more than any other field, increasingly the site for hybrid production. 
Developing in parallel to changes in data have been massive changes in how we understand cities. The purview of those changes are beyond the scope of this research but what is happily not only within reach but valuable and productive in those changes is the generation of urban fabric through data production and analysis. Cities are an incredible source of data that can shed light on the lives of individuals as much on the corners where informal economies exist. 

##Research Scope
Yellow Detective is a project in development, an MVP that exploits ubiquitous if often mundane data production to reveal novel connections integral to the function of cities. Yellow Detective makes good on the promise of a clearer vision of the present and the future made possible by data. It is the health salve that clears the smoke from our detective’s office and the bionic eyepiece to let us see through walls.
The project begins by asking questions about the relationship of a person to a place. By exploratory research techniques, YD creates layers of data to reveal connections, and more importantly, to generate new questions, ways of inquiring, and means of visualization. 
We began by asking simple questions about how big data, iterative processing, and critical visual studies could help us to see the forces subtending our cities. Though we began with simple questions about social networks, nebulous data we sought to see better the exciting networks that we engage with daily without having much of a sense of.
How do these vast if informal economies operate in cities and how can we ask questions about them? Calling is only one app on the phones of the grey economy; surely we can access through through some other means. How can we use data to ask questions about informal economies surreptitiously?
We began our research in Dongguan, a city between Shenzhen to its south and Guaghzhao to its north. Known for its light industries, Dongguan is more relaxed than its neighbors as tech hub and capital cities respectively. 
The slow life, however, belies a vast and complex network of relationships. While those relationships are never hidden from sight, they operate with tacit consent, under pseudonyms, and without the explicit regulation of the law. They negotiate ways of being available without being seen. 
While informal economies rarely state their name and age, they do sometimes appear out in the open. These moments where grey economies  slip from the shadows are opportunities for research. So when, on February 14, 2014, police in China made news by raiding a hotel in Dongguan known as a central node for the city’s wide range of prostitution, we put Yellow Detective to work knocking on doors and following the lead. 
An article in Hong Kong based South China Morning Post relates the details of the raid: a 5-star hotel run by one of Chinese nouveau riche has been raided by police. Inside they found, to no one’s surprise, many women working as prostitutes. The article goes on to explain that prostitution makes up for some 10% of the local GDP employing 300,000 people. We know, however, that this number must be unfathomably low and SCMP suggests it knows too. Further along in their article they report, “The sex trade relates directly or indirectly to many sectors including hotels, condoms, restaurants, cosmetics, daily goods travel and other things.” SCMP had reported the news and identified a node, a whole invisible network coming up to breathe. Certainly prostitiution isn’t news so why did the paper not pursue the real story? Perhaps they need Yellow Detective.
Prostitution is directly tied to urban issues. Users of China’s Sina Weibo  are quoted in the same SCMP article castigating the police “'If you have guts, go do a secret investigation on forced demolitions…’” Its worth noting that not only did users see that prostitution and urban development are tied together but that they chose to identify this relationship via social media.











##Hypothesis

Our hypothesis is that on urban scale, city is like an organism, places are like the cells, but the places are not working individually, they have a comprehensive network to organize and collaborate, on a broader scale would present some features resembles a tissue or organ. Their relationship would be complicated, certain places might be the service area for one place, or they could be the substitute or complement for a place. This relationship is often hidden behind the city. But normally places would be connected by people who keep moving between different places. Therefore, by observing people’s movement, certain relationship network of places would emerge from urban scale.


##Methodology

We will start with the a certain place(originPlace), and find all the people who have checked in there (set A). Then we will find all the places in PRD where the people in set A have checked in (set B). By linking (drawing lines) the points from set A to set B,  we could visualize this relationship network, then some places(connectedPlace) will emerge, which would have a relatively high concentration of checkins from people in set A. In that case, we could say that Place 1 has a strong correlation with Place 2.


##Minimum Viable Product

We first want to mainly focus on the latent grey industry in Dongguan, so we choose a hotel as originPlace which is very famous for this service, and we set a time limit from 9pm to 4am, our assumption is that people who checkin during this very late time and at this place have a large possibility that they are prostitute’s client, so the places that these clients linking to might have interesting relationship with this hotel. 

But after a test we find that this single place will not give us a good result, so we change originPlace to Houjie, a larger area full of this service instead only a hotel, which gives us very good result. From the final map, we could see that Houjie has a strong relationship with Hongkong, Macau and Guangzhou, there are big correlation with Shenzhen but not as much as the 3 places mentioned before, certain small cities also emerge such as Foshan, Jiangmen and Zhaoqing. On the other hand, we could see that Houjie have a really big service radius across the whole PRD region.

We then extended this methodology to the whole PRD region, so actually you could move to anywhere you want to examine, and then press the update button, it will send the lat/lng data back to server to show the result. Certain area like guangzhou would have huge data, so we limit the set A to 60 in server in case the user wait too long. We want to provide time selection option in our future development, hoping to let user decide what time they want to query, because some urban services which would vary dramatically as time changes.